Welcome to Thursday afternoon at WWDC.
My name's Vicki Murley.
I'm the Safari Technologies Evangelist
at Apple,
and this is session 604,
Advanced Effects with
HTML5 Media Technologies.
So if you're here for a session
on advanced media topics,
you're probably already familiar
with the audio and video elements.
These have been around
for quite a while now.
They were actually part of the very first
public draft of the HTML5 specification.
They were two elements that were,
at the time, radically different than the
headers and paragraphs that people
were accustomed to seeing in HTML.
This early definition of how
these elements should behave
had kind of a domino effect.
The first thing that happened
was that browser implementers,
like the people at
Apple who work on Safari,
were able to add support for these
elements to their web browsers.
So Safari was the first browser
to support the audio and video
element way back in 2007,
five years ago.
The next kind of line in the domino
effect was that since so many
browsers were adopting these elements,
websites were able to adopt them without
a whole lot of compatibility worries.
So if you've watched video on
the web in the last couple years,
you've probably been using
an HTML5 media player.
Vimeo is a great site
that has an HTML5 player.
On Apple.com,
we actually show all of our videos.
That looks like a built-in
system controller,
but it's actually built
purely with HTML5.
And, of course,
these elements have been essential
because they let us watch video and
listen to audio in web pages on iOS,
which is a platform that doesn't
support internet plugins.
So today I'm here to talk to you about
some new technologies for HTML5 media,
new in Safari 6 and new on iOS 6.
If you've been using the HTML5
audio and video elements,
there may have been times where
you were trying to add a specific
feature or achieve a certain effect
and you have been frustrated.
So today I'm going to talk to you
about technologies that solve some of
these common problems and hopefully
also inspire you to come up with some
great new interfaces on your websites.
So I'm going to teach you how
to do three things today as far
as media integration with HTML5.
First,
I'm going to show you how to synchronize
multiple media elements with some
new API that's available in Safari 6.
Next, I'm going to show you how to
implement full screen interfaces.
If you've ever wanted to overlay your
own custom controls for your video
player and haven't been able to,
you're going to be really
interested in this topic.
And finally,
I'm going to tell you how you can
augment your user interface with audio.
In this section, I'm going to cover the
basics of the Web Audio API,
which is now available in Safari 6
on Lion and Mountain Lion,
and in Safari on iOS 6 as well.
So let's get started talking about
synchronizing multiple media elements.
There are lots of times when you
might want to have two pieces of
media on your website in perfect sync.
Believe it or not,
I created this mockup without
any design help whatsoever.
It's pretty amazing.
But as you can see, I have a video on
either side of the page,
and I have these sharks kind of
swimming from one side to another,
and the waves of the water are, you know,
they have a cohesive effect.
You may have seen other video
effects like this in websites where
there's a video across the top of
the page and on one side of the page,
and something is traveling
down from one video to another.
In order to achieve
these types of effects,
you have to keep those
videos in perfect sync.
So, decoration is one instance where
I would need this technology.
Another is if you want to add
a sign language video track
to the media on your site.
There's this guy,
his name is Stephen Torrance, and he does
American Sign Language interpretations
of popular songs.
I found him on YouTube and
then I was really surprised to
learn that he works at Apple,
actually.
But if you wanted to synchronize
one of his sign language
interpretations with your own media,
you'd need this technology.
If you want to compare two
like things on your website,
maybe we have a snowboarder,
a snowboarding competition,
and we want to compare the performance
of two different snowboarders
coming off of the same jump.
Or maybe we want to compare
two baseball swings,
or two soccer kicks,
or two models walking down a runway.
Comparing two like elements in real time,
you would need to keep these
pieces of video in sync.
Finally, you might have a piece
of video on your site,
and you want to substitute
an alternate audio track,
like in this case.
Hi, I'm Vicki Murley from the
Software Evangelism team at Apple.
Sounded a little different when
I recorded it in the studio,
but thanks to Alan Schaffer
for the voice talent here.
But this is one kind of, you know,
funny example,
but there are plenty of other
times where you'd want to do
this for practical purposes.
So how do we do this?
If you've tried to do this in the past,
you may have thought, okay, well,
I'm going to fetch all of
the videos on the page,
put them into an array,
cycle through them,
and just call play on all of them.
And maybe JavaScript, it's super fast,
maybe this will be able
to keep them all in sync.
That's not actually
what is going to happen.
They're always going to be
a little bit out of sync.
Even if you're doing
something fancier than this,
like trying to do a little bit
of a play on all of the videos,
you're going to have to do a little
bit of a play on all of the videos.
And then trying to start them all once
they hit at the one second mark and then
keep them in sync as they're playing.
It's really difficult to do.
Script execution is always
going to take a finite and
unpredictable amount of time,
even if that time is really small.
And it's not as if media playback
is blocked by script execution.
So we really need, oh,
and that's just playing the media.
When we start to think about
some of the other issues that
come into play with media,
it becomes obvious that this is
really difficult to do on your own.
How do you determine when all of
the videos have enough data buffered
to play them all the way through?
If you wanted to change the playback
rate to do like a slow motion effect
or fast forward through the video,
how would you do that on several
videos at exactly the same time?
What if one video stalls?
You'd have to somehow detect
that stall and then pause all
the other videos and then,
again,
start playing them at all the same time.
This is really difficult.
Lucky for you, if you're trying to do
something like this,
there is a new feature in HTML5 and
new in Safari 6.0 available on Lion and
Mountain Lion called Media Controllers.
So Media Controllers basically let you
slave any number of media elements,
for example, four pieces of video,
to a single controller.
And then when I call
play on the controller,
all of the pieces of video start to play.
When I call pause on the controller,
they're all paused.
Play and pause are probably two functions
that are really familiar to you if you've
been using the audio and video elements.
And in fact,
a media controller has all of the
same API that you're used to using
for the audio and video elements.
So the play, pause,
and can play type functions,
all of the attributes
that you're used to,
like current time, duration, ended, etc.
All of the events that you're
used to listening for if you've
ever made an HTML5 media player.
The only two attributes that
are not supported for media
controllers are loop and autoplay.
So how do we set up one of
these media controllers?
Well, if I wanted to synchronize one of
Stephen Torrance's sign language
tracks to this Bohemian Rhapsody video,
the first thing I would do is
set the media group attribute on
all of the elements that I want
to slave to one controller.
And that is going to
look something like this.
Here are my two video tags.
And I'm just going to add the media group
attribute and set them to the same value,
which is video controller.
By putting this HTML,
I've just created a media
controller implicitly.
That's all you have to do.
Once I've declared the media controller,
to access that controller,
I can get the controller on
any of the slaved elements,
and that will give me the controller
that's common to all of them.
So here,
I've just used getElementsByTagName to
get the first piece of video on the page.
I could have also used querySelector.
I get the controller
object on that video,
and then I can just call
the play and pause methods
directly on that controller.
And as I said before,
doing so will play and pause all
of the slaved pieces of media.
In JavaScript, it's similarly simple.
Maybe you have some kind of
dynamic effect and you want to
start playing two pieces of media
at the same time on the fly.
You can create a media controller object
just by calling new media controller.
Set that controller object to the
controller on any media element.
And then again, just control that media,
all those slave pieces of media,
through the controller.
So here I'm calling play
and pause on the controller.
So to show us how this works,
synchronizing video playback
with media controllers,
I'd like to invite Beth Dakin
to join me on stage.
So I was inspired to create this
demo by this beautiful video.
This is a video created by a
photographer named Joe Capra.
He went to Iceland during
the time of year when the sun
doesn't set for a bunch of days,
and he took all of these
photographs and then made this
beautiful stop motion video.
So this is his webpage
where he has the video,
and I made my own little mock-up of
it for the purposes of this demo.
Okay, so I wanted to create a really
cool tile effect with this video.
So in your slides, you were showing how
to sync up two videos,
but for this demo,
I wanted to sync up four videos.
Whoa, wow.
So you're telling me you're about
to sync four videos on this webpage.
Oh yeah.
Oh my gosh.
This is happening.
I'm really excited.
It's going to be awesome.
Oh my gosh.
Okay.
And then you're going to do
some cool effects with it?
Yeah.
I can't wait.
Okay.
I'm so excited.
So this looks like one
video here in my page,
but it's actually four.
So I have four different video elements,
each in its own div.
I have a different version where
I put a border around the div,
just so you can see that.
So I have four divs here,
and they each are clipping out a portion
of the video using overflow hidden.
And then they have the video element
positioned correctly so that they'll
all line up as if it were one video.
I see.
And so since it's lined up
as if it was a single video,
I want everything to be in sync.
I see.
So let's take a look at the code
because what I have going on right
now is not really doing that.
Okay.
So this is what I was trying to do,
where I was getting all of the
videos and looping through and
trying to tell each video to play.
And as you were just
telling us in your slides,
this does not really work.
No, it does not.
It's not possible to keep
everything in sync all the time.
This is just very inconsistent.
So I want to use a media controller.
So this is my HTML file.
I have my four videos here,
each in their own div.
And I'm just going to add an
attribute to each of these files.
So I'm going to add each of the videos.
So I just want to add this
attribute in each of these places.
So I'm going to give
them all the same value,
tile controller, because I want all four
videos to be slave files.
So I want to use a media controller.
So I'm going to add each of these files.
So this version of the function just
starts by getting the video controller.
And since all of the videos
have the same controller,
I can just take any one of those
videos and get its controller,
since that's the controller
for all of the videos.
And then instead of telling a
video element to play or pause,
I'm just going to tell the
controller to play or pause.
I can't wait.
I'm so excited.
Should we check it out?
Yes.
I'm really excited.
All right.
This is going to be awesome.
So let's reload.
Check it out!
They're all in sync!
It looks just like one piece
of video on a web page.
Yeah, but they're all in sync.
Isn't that awesome?
Wait a second.
I thought you said you were going
to show us some really cool tiling
effects or something like that.
Well, but this is really cool too.
They're all in sync.
Wait a minute there.
I have to say,
I'm not going to lie to you,
I'm a little disappointed right now.
Alright, I'm just going to do two things.
Okay, I'm ready.
First, I'm going to click this button.
And then I'm just going to type my name,
okay?
Okay, I'm ready.
B-E-T-R-I-N-G.
[Transcript missing]
Whoa.
What's happening now?
I'm going to press F now.
You want to know what this is?
What's happening here?
All right.
So here I'm using an awesome new
feature in Safari 6 called CSS Filters.
And with just one line of CSS,
I can apply one of these really cool
effects to each of these videos.
And so here I'm just randomizing
the different filter effects.
And as I click on them,
a different filter
effect is being applied.
And when I press F,
it's getting a new filter
effect for all of the videos.
Cool.
So you get to apply a filter
with just one line of CSS,
basically.
Yes.
That's it.
Pretty cool.
Awesome.
So how did you get this to show
up and take over the whole screen?
That's something I have
never seen before.
So I'm glad you asked.
I used another awesome
new API in Safari 6,
a new JavaScript API for
taking any element full screen.
So this is different than the
Safari full screen feature that
shipped in Safari Online originally,
where I pressed that button
up there to take the whole
Safari application full screen.
That's like a Safari feature where all
of this is just built into the browser,
same on every web page.
Here I'm taking advantage of this
new JavaScript API where I'm fully
controlling this full screen experience
and the look and behavior of it.
So you may notice a few ways in
which I customize that experience.
So obviously a few things
are pretty obvious.
Like I have it so that the
video tiles split apart.
And grow apart when you
go into full screen.
And I also have it so that
the background color changes.
And I had all these cool effects.
These hot keys are hooked up to
different JavaScript functions to
do these different things in CSS.
And that's all only in full screen.
So if I press those buttons normally
when we are not in full screen,
then we would not see those cool effects.
I see.
And another thing is that you may
have seen all of those elements.
I see.
And the elements on the page are
flying off in different directions
when we go in and out of full screen.
And then they fly back on as well.
So you're saying that that's
not the default behavior for
the web page elements to fly
off in different directions?
No, that's totally customized.
Okay, great.
Cool.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
Well, thanks, Beth,
for showing that to us.
Thank you.
So Beth has conveniently brought
me to the second part of this talk,
which is all about implementing
full screen interfaces.
If you have been coming to
WWDC for a few years now,
you probably saw Beth and
I on stage in 2010,
where we showed you a demo
that looked like this.
And in this demo,
we had our own custom controls.
You can see a play button
and then a full screen button
over on the right-hand side.
But this full screen button
was using an older API,
and that would just take the
video element full screen.
And then when we were
in the full screen mode,
our only option was to
overlay the default controls.
That was the built-in behavior.
It wasn't customizable.
You couldn't show your own
custom controls in this view.
So, as Beth said,
now there's a new JavaScript API which
you can use to take any web
page element full screen.
The element that has your video
and the controls inside of it.
You can take a paragraph full
screen if you really wanted to.
And it's really simple
and really powerful.
It boils down to doing two things,
knowing how to enter and
exit full screen mode,
and knowing how to define a
custom or appearance or behavior
for the full screen element.
So let's tackle the first part,
how to take any web page
element full screen.
It's actually really simple.
All you have to do is fetch
that element and then request
full screen on that element.
So in our demo example,
the element that we wanted to
take full screen was named main,
and so we just fetched that and called
WebKit request full screen on it.
I want to take a moment just to
mention that all of the API that
I'm going to talk about right
now has the WebKit prefix on it
because these APIs are still part
of a developing specification,
which you can take a
closer look at at this URL.
So when you call request
full screen on any element,
it's going to take over the screen
from which the request was initiated.
By that, I'm just referring to any
kind of dual monitor scenario.
Like if you have Safari on
your leftmost monitor,
it'll take over the leftmost.
Screen, not both monitors.
And it has to be triggered by an
explicit user action such as a click.
You can't trigger full screen,
for example, from an onload handler.
A mouse move event also does not
qualify as an explicit user action.
Imagine going to a website and
having an advertisement come up
and you move the mouse one pixel
and it takes over the full screen.
You would not want that experience.
One other reminder here is that case.
Matters when you're calling
request full screen.
It's a lowercase s here.
I don't know how many times I've
mistyped and used an uppercase S,
but make sure you use the lowercase
S because the specification has changed.
And if you use an uppercase,
you're going to be using an
older version of this API.
That's how you enter full screen.
Exiting full screen is
really just as simple.
You just call exit full
screen on the document.
This also requires an
explicit user action.
But in this case,
that initial click to enter full screen
mode might qualify as the action that
you can use to exit full screen mode.
For example, if a user clicks a link,
you can set a timeout from that click.
If a user clicks a link,
you can trigger full screen mode
and in that same action set a
timeout to exit full screen mode
after a certain amount of time.
And again,
just like entering full screen,
case matters for exit
full screen as well.
So what about knowing when full
screen has been triggered and exited?
There's actually a single
event listener for both events,
and it's called full screen change.
So I will just get the element
that I'm taking full screen.
In our example,
that element has an ID of main,
and I'm going to add an event listener,
the event listener for
full screen change.
And then when that happens,
I'm going to add my listener that
listens for those key presses that
Beth was doing only in full screen mode,
that worked only in full screen mode.
We want to do this because we wouldn't
want those key handlers to be in action
when we were in line in the page.
If a user was entering a comment
on my blog or something like that,
they would be pretty surprised if
video elements started moving around.
So there's a single event for
both entering and exiting.
The way you determine which direction
you're going is to look for a full
screen element on the document.
So if you have a full screen
element on the document,
if document.webkit full screen element,
then you are entering full screen mode.
So at that point,
I'm going to add my event listener
to handle those key presses.
And if you don't have that,
then you are exiting full screen mode.
So in my example,
I then removed that event
listener to handle key presses.
As I mentioned, you can take any web
page element full screen.
An image, a paragraph, a heading,
anything you like.
You can even take the body
full screen if you wanted to.
iFrames have a special behavior though.
If you have an iFrame on your site,
you're often getting
content from somewhere else,
some third party,
and you don't necessarily
control that content that
you're embedding on your page.
So you might not want that
content to be able to take over
the full screen on your page.
If we take a closer look,
this one has a full screen button.
You can set an attribute on your
iframe that lets you control
whether or not an iframe is
allowed to take itself full screen.
So I may want to allow full screen on an
iframe that is from a trusted video site.
I want users to be able to
take that element full screen.
I want that iframe content to be
able to take itself full screen.
But I might not want to set
the allow full screen attribute
on an iframe that contains an
advertisement or something like that.
I wouldn't want that advertisement to
be able to take over the full screen.
The iframe itself knows about the
decision that you have made on your site.
The iframe can call
document.webkit fullscreenenabled
to detect your decision here.
So they can detect whether or not
you have set this attribute to enable
fullscreen mode for their content.
The iframe itself knows about the
decision that you have made on your site.
The iframe can call
document.webkit fullscreenenabled
to detect your decision here.
So they can detect whether or not
you have set this attribute to enable
fullscreen mode for their content.
So those are all the details of
entering and exiting full screen mode.
Now let's talk about how to define a
custom appearance or a behavior for that
element that we're taking full screen.
So this first explanation really doesn't
have much to do with full screen mode,
but many of you might be wondering,
looking for a little more
information about it.
CSS filters is a brand
new feature in Safari 6,
and as Beth said,
you can use just one line of CSS to
apply a filter effect to any element,
including video.
So this is the filter property,
and it can take one or
many of several functions.
You can add a sepia tone,
invert the values, add contrast,
set grayscale, change the opacity,
change the hue rotation, set a blur,
change the brightness,
or add a drop shadow.
You can specify just
one of these functions,
or you, oh,
and this is what they look like.
So I've taken this image of the tulips,
which is up in the
upper left-hand corner,
and applied the following filters to it.
In each example here,
with just one line of CSS,
it's pretty amazing.
You can also combine multiple
filter functions into one.
So if I wanted to see what a
hue rotation of 320 degrees with
a contrast of two looked like,
I could do that.
And also, the filter property,
like many CSS properties,
can be animated.
So if I say that I want to animate
the filter property over five seconds,
I would actually see this
effect in my web page,
the colors kind of changing over time.
Pretty cool.
You may have noticed that the
performance as we were filtering
these elements and moving them
around screen was really great,
and that's because in most cases,
CSS filters are hardware accelerated,
so you're going to get great performance.
Okay, so now that that is out of the way,
let's focus on how we achieve some
of these effects in full screen.
You may have noticed that
the interface changed when we
went into full screen mode.
Our full screen button disappeared,
we had a close button appear
in the upper left corner,
the video obviously got
bigger and split into pieces,
and all of these other page
elements kind of slid off the
screen in different directions.
Well,
those effects were all achieved with
basically one CSS pseudo class that
is available in full screen mode,
and it's called the full
screen pseudo class.
Here it has a WebKit prefix,
as I mentioned before.
If you're not familiar
with CSS pseudo-classes,
they're applied by the browser,
and you define the appearance
when the browser applies it.
So a really common
pseudo-class is colon hover,
and it's used on links
on tons of websites.
Here I have a link,
and the color of the text is gray.
When the user hovers over it,
I want to color the text white and
add a background color of dark cyan.
So it's just going to
change instantaneously.
I can animate that change by just adding
one line to my anchor style definition.
That's the transition property,
and I'm saying that I want the background
color to animate over two seconds and
the color to animate over two seconds.
So now when a user puts their
mouse pointer over this link,
it's going to change over time instead
of making an instantaneous change.
And that's how we achieved many of the
effects that you saw in this interface.
The most simple example was
changing the background color.
Here I've added sort of a yellow
outline to the element main,
which was the element that
I was taking full screen.
In the page view,
the background color was white,
but when this element was
displayed in full screen mode,
I wanted the background
color to be black.
So I just select the main element with
the full screen pseudo class in this way.
I wanted that to animate over time,
so I just added the transition
property to change the background
color over two seconds.
This is how the sliding
effects were also done.
So we had this logo at the top.
It was just a div with
a background image.
The logo was inside of the element main,
so it was inside of the element
that we were taking full screen.
So we used the CSS pseudo class.
We select it differently than
we do for the main element.
So here I'm saying that when this
logo element is in full screen mode,
I want to translate
it in the Y direction,
negative 300 pixels, so off the page.
And again,
I just add the transition property so
that the change isn't instantaneous,
so that it animates off the page.
One case where you're going to
definitely be using the full screen
pseudo class is when you're actually
resizing your element to fit the screen.
So by default,
Safari and WebKit will preserve the
size of the element and its aspect
ratio when you go into full screen mode.
And this is actually kind of useful.
Imagine you have a video.
Most videos have a different aspect ratio
than the ratio of the user's screen,
or they might have a
different aspect ratio.
So if we just stretch this
for you in both directions,
it might not look right.
So you can actually customize
the width and height of your
element in full screen mode.
So if I wanted this purple box to
just take over the entire screen,
I could change the width to
100% and the height to 100%.
and then it would do just that,
fill the entire screen.
So to summarize,
with full screen interfaces,
you really have complete control
with just a few simple pieces of API.
It's really easy to trigger
and detect full screen mode.
You get to decide how the
iframes on your website behave.
They cannot take themselves full
screen without your permission.
It's really easy to define a
custom appearance and behavior
with the Fullscreen Pseudo Class,
the Fullscreen Change Event,
and the ability to access the
fullscreen element on the document.
So that's implementing
fullscreen interfaces.
Now I want to talk about augmenting
your interface with audio.
So if you have been using the
audio tag on your website,
you've probably noticed that
it's great for certain things.
It is designed to stream audio.
That is more complicated than
it sounds behind the scenes.
You're getting audio
from a remote source,
it's buffered,
the audio element knows exactly
how to handle that changing
environment and play that media.
It's really easy to use the audio
tag to add a background audio
track to any website or web app.
It's as easy as dropping in an image.
And of course, without the audio element,
we wouldn't be able to play
audio in our websites on iOS
devices without this element.
But if you've used the audio tag,
if you've tried to use the audio
tag to do some other things,
you might have found some things quite
difficult and in some cases impossible.
So with the audio tag,
it's not easy to play a
sound at an exact time.
You might by chance get that
sound to play at the exact time,
but if you needed to schedule
that sound in the future,
you might not get the behavior
that you're always looking
for with the audio tag.
You can't use the audio
tag to dynamically apply
effects like reverb and echo.
You definitely cannot generate
a sound from the audio tag.
The audio tag takes
existing media and plays it.
And finally, you can't use the audio tag
to access raw audio data.
It's just,
it's great in some ways because
it's as simple as adding
an image to your website,
but it doesn't let you kind of
see the bits inside and create
new interfaces based on that.
So there is a new technology that lets
you do all of these things and more
that the audio tag isn't designed for,
and that is the Web Audio API.
And the Web Audio API is
available in Safari 6 on Lion and
Mountain Lion and in Safari on iOS 6.
And right now,
I just want to show you a demo
to show you what's possible.
So what I've created here
with the Web Audio API is
just a simple audio sequencer.
And on the left,
I have a number of instruments,
and they're getting highlighted
as I mouse over them.
If you're looking for sounds
for your own audio interfaces,
freesound.org is a really great resource.
People have put a lot of time and effort
into recreating all different kinds of
sounds from all different instruments,
and that's actually where
I got the sounds for this demo.
So right now I'm
hovering over the symbol,
but if I click on it,
the sound is going to
play instantaneously.
Then maybe I can make it a little louder.
Okay, that's better.
So we've got the symbol
here that I'm clicking on,
the snare.
The clap, which is my favorite.
If things start going badly,
I can just generate applause for myself.
And also the kick drum,
which is this nice low beat.
So you can already see that this
is an incredibly responsive UI.
I'm just clicking,
clicking a bunch of times.
It's completely responsive.
This Web Audio API also lets
me schedule the exact time
that a sound should be played.
And that's really important in any
kind of game that you're creating
for a website and also in this
type of sequencer application.
So I'm just going to
select the kick drum here,
and then I'm going to click play to
start the playhead on my audio sequencer.
And you're going to see the kick drum
always playing at the exactly right time.
It's pretty exciting.
But it gets even better when we start
combining multiple sounds at once.
So if you've ever wanted to play two
pieces of sound at the same time on iOS,
in Safari on iOS,
this is your solution for doing that.
I'm going to select this symbol
and then click play again,
and we'll hear them play
at the exact same time.
The kind of fine-grained control is
really important for something like this.
If it were even a little bit off,
it would be really noticeable.
And of course,
it's incredibly important if you're
making something like a web game.
You need a sound to play as an explosion
happens or as two things collide.
So let's just make this example a
little more complicated so that we can
see the sounds just playing perfectly.
I'm going to bring in
maybe this drum up here.
[Transcript missing]
This audio visualizer here, the spectrum,
that's a pretty simple use case
of accessing the raw audio data,
but you could imagine making an
entire music video on your website and
synchronizing all of the elements in that
video to the exact beats of the song.
It would be really cool.
Today, so this API, it's really powerful.
It's also very vast.
There's a lot to it.
So today, since we don't have a
whole lot of time left,
I'm going to just cover some basic
concepts to help you get started playing
sounds and fetching and creating sounds.
The other reason that I'm not going
in depth on this is because this is
an API that is still in development.
It's in the versions of
Safari that you have with you.
We're encouraging you to
go ahead and download it.
So if you're new to the app,
I encourage you to try it out.
Give us feedback.
Let us know how you like it,
what needs to be different.
But today, I'm just going to cover the
basics for you to get started.
So the Web Audio API,
it kind of reminds me of the
Canvas API that people use for drawing.
An image tag, you just drop it in,
and that's sort of it.
It's sort of a black box.
But the Canvas tag lets you
have a context that you draw to.
And so like the Canvas tag,
the context that you're drawing to,
there's also a context
for the Web Audio API.
And on that context,
you're going to build up a graph of nodes
that you route your audio through and
then eventually play on your website.
So the most basic audio context
graph might look something like this.
I would have a source,
and that is just routed to a destination.
And in almost all cases,
there is a default destination,
and that is just a destination.
So that is just your speakers.
There's a built-in default
destination on every audio context,
and that is the speakers.
So let's take a look.
This is a really simple example,
but this is where it all starts.
So let's take a closer look at
how to work with audio sources.
So in most scenarios,
in a lot of scenarios,
you're going to be creating an
audio source from a remote resource.
And most of the time,
you're going to be using XML, HTML,
HTTP request to get that raw file data.
So when you're using XHR to
fetch these remote resources,
you have to do a couple special things.
The first two lines look really standard.
We're creating a new request.
We're calling open on the
request with the resource,
the URL for our file.
We're setting the response type
on the request to array buffer.
And this is telling the browser,
telling XMLHTP request that we just want
the ones and zeros from this raw file.
Most of the time when you
are using XMLHTP request,
you want text as your response.
When we set response
type to array buffer,
we're just going to be
getting ones and zeros.
I'm going to add an event listener
to this request to call process
buffer once the load event is set.
is emitted, and then I'm going to
call send on that request.
[Transcript missing]
And then I'm going to, on that source,
I'm going to fill the buffer object
with the contents of the file that
I have fetched from a remote location.
So now we have all of our
sound data in this buffer,
and we need it to play at
exactly the right time.
So a user taps the screen,
and we want a sound to be emitted.
To do that,
there is a function called noteOn,
and you just have to tell it when.
It looks something like this.
This is where we left off
on the previous slide.
We had just created an audio buffer
source node and filled it with our
buffer contents from our remote file.
What we have to do next is connect
that to the default output.
My audio context has a destination
object on it by default.
So I'm just going to pass
that to the connect function.
And then I can call note on on my source.
And if I provide a parameter of zero,
that tells the browser to
play that sound right now.
So that covers a really common case
of fetching a remote resource and
using the Web Audio API to play it.
There are other ways to generate
sounds with the Web Audio API.
You can actually hook up to an audio
element and use a media element
audio source node to play the audio,
to route the audio from your audio
element through the Web Audio API.
You can synthesize a sound from nothing.
We've been talking a lot about files,
fetching them from remote locations.
You can use a built-in audio
source called Oscillator.
This is great for just
beeps or simple tones.
If you wanted to create
a really simple organ,
you could use the Oscillator
audio source to do that.
Create a sound from scratch.
And also, similarly,
it's easy to generate a completely
custom sound from JavaScript using
JavaScript Audio Node.
So those are really the
basics of the Web Audio API.
You have a source,
and it's a source node,
and it's connected to a destination node,
and both of these are
on your audio context.
I mentioned that you're going
to be building up a graph of
nodes on this audio context,
and this can actually get fairly complex.
It can get as complex
as you want it to be,
in fact.
But it all, so we're starting with three
different sources here,
routing them through a bunch of filters,
and then eventually they're
getting to the destination.
But even this,
most of these things in the middle are
just filter nodes that you're adding in.
You now know the basics of declaring
a source and a destination,
hooking them up, and playing a sound.
So that's augmenting your
interface with audio.
So in closing, I just want to remind you
that there are some great new
APIs for HTML5 Media in Safari 6,
which is available on
Lion and Mountain Lion,
and in iOS 6.
They are going to let you solve some
common problems that you've been
facing and also let you integrate
media in new ways in your web content.
The media synchronization and
full-screen APIs are really simple,
but they're also incredibly powerful.
We saw some pretty cool stuff
today done with just a few
lines of JavaScript and CSS.
And then finally, Web Audio,
available in Safari 6 on
the desktop and on iOS 6,
really enables an entirely
new class of web applications.
For more information,
you can email me directly if you need to,
vickieatapple.com.
There's also documentation
on the Safari Dev Center.
The w3.org website has copies of
all the specifications of things
that I've been discussing today.
And also, if you haven't already,
you should join the
Safari Developer Program,
which is free to join.
All you need is an email address,
because that will give you access to a
Safari section of the developer forums,
and many of the engineers from
the Safari and WebKit team
are there answering questions,
and I'm there as well.